# Validate Migration Data

This section outlines optional steps you can take to ensure that the data was
imported successfully. These steps verify the artifacts generated by the
migration tool, help confirm that the tool produced the expected outputs,
and applied the correct translations and naming conventions.

Core validation procedures are already built into the migration workflow.
To ensure all required checks are completed, follow the validation steps
provided in every step of the migration guide.

## Projects

To verify that all repositories have been migrated:

1. Truncate and sort the data on both versions of MSR:

    ```bash
    tail -n +2 data/csv/harbor_projects.csv | cut -d, -f2 | sort > harbor_repo
    tail -n +2 data/csv/msr_repositories.csv | cut -d, -f1,4 | sort > msr_repo
    ```

2. Count how many namespace and repository name entries exist in the original
   MSR data:

    ```bash
    cat msr_repo | wc -l
    ```

3. Repeat the process for MSR 4 data:

    ```bash
    cat harbor_repo | wc -l
    ```

4. Compare the results. The MSR 4 output should have exactly one more entry.
   This extra entry comes from the default `library` repository included with
   the MSR 4 instance.

5. To verify the migration, remove the `library` project from the MSR 4
   results.

6. Use `vimdiff` or a similar tool to compare the files and confirm that
   repository names match between MSR versions.

    !!! note

        `vimdiff` is not included in the container and must be installed
        separately if used.

## Groups

To verify that all groups have been migrated:

1. Filter original MSR Enzi group data by removing any rows where the
   `groupDN` field is empty, these correspond to SAML or SCIM groups:

    ```bash
    docker run --rm \
        -v ./sql:/app/data/sql \
        -v ./csv:/app/data/csv \
        -v ./config:/app/config \
        --network host \
        registry.mirantis.com/msrh/migrate:latest \
        mlr --csv filter '!is_empty($groupDN)' /app/data/csv/enzi_teams.csv
    ```

2. Filter original MSR Enzi group data by removing any rows where the
   `groupDN` field is not empty, these correspond to LDAP groups:

    ```bash
    docker run --rm \
        -v ./sql:/app/data/sql \
        -v ./csv:/app/data/csv \
        -v ./config:/app/config \
        --network host \
        registry.mirantis.com/msrh/migrate:latest \
        mlr --csv filter 'is_empty($groupDN)' /app/data/csv/enzi_teams.csv
    ```

3. Determine how many groups are currently present in MSR 4 using the exported
   PostgreSQL data:

    ```bash
    docker run --rm \
       -v ./sql:/app/data/sql \
       -v ./csv:/app/data/csv \
       -v ./config:/app/config \
       --network host \
       registry.mirantis.com/msrh/migrate:latest \
       mlr --csv sort -f name data/csv/harbor_groups.csv
    ```

4. Compare the group list from both steps.

5. Extract and sort group names from the input Enzi set, saving the output to
   a file named `msr_groups`:

    ```bash
    cat ./csv/msr_repositories_with_enzi_team.csv | cut -d, -f1,9,12 | \
    awk -F',' '$3 != ""' | cut -d, -f1,2 | sort -u > msr_groups
    ```

6. Repeat the process for MSR 4 groups:

    ```bash
    cat ./csv/harbor_groups.csv | cut -d, -f2 | sort -u > msr4_groups
    ```

7. Compare the contents of `msr_groups` and `msr4_groups`. Verify whether group
   names have been correctly prefixed by their namespaces. Use tools such as
   `delta` or `mlr` for a side-by-side comparison. These tools are available
   both locally and within the migration tool container.
